So, if you're watching this, you're
probably curious about Instagram. You've
clicked on this or maybe you saw it pop
up in your feed. Uh, if you want to know
how to do Instagram, right? Well, I got
the master here, Brock Johnson. We're
going to talk about tips, tactics,
mentality on how to grow on Instagram
this year cuz it's a new year and we
want to set you up for success. Brock,
welcome to the show, man.
>> Thank you. I'm excited to be here
>> in the new studio.
>> Brand new. Yeah, I know. I'm fired up.
>> I don't think anybody even really knows
what this is about, so we'll have to
reveal that later. But, uh, there's a
hook for you, Brock. I want to talk
about Instagram. You are an Instagram
expert. You have students. You get to go
to amazing places to speak about
Instagram. I just want to start off
really, really quick with a very
>> kind of hard question, which is if
somebody were starting Instagram today
with zero followers, zero brand deals,
zero experience. What's one thing that
they would do that would
>> basically kill their chances of doing
well right from the get-go? Yeah, I
would say it is comparing themselves to
creators who have come before them. I
was tempted to answer your question by
saying following people who have come
before them.
>> I think you can follow other people to
get sources for inspiration to see what
are other people doing that I can you
know borrow for my own stuff or what are
other people doing that there's like a
gap in the market and I can fill that
need. So I think that that can be
helpful to a certain extent. Um, but I
think that comparing yourself to others,
specifically in their outcomes, right?
Looking at how fast they grew, how many
followers they have, how much engagement
they're getting,
>> that is going to lead to failure so fast
because you are not going to see
outcomes very fast. You're not going to
see outcomes like they have for probably
years. And it's just going to defeat you
and leave you with this sense of like,
why not me? This victim mentality. and
it's going to absolutely crush your
chances of ever having success
>> because we hear stories all the time of
the creator who just got started
yesterday and then they're blowing up,
right? But what is what is a usual
average sort of cadence of expectation
for results on Instagram? Like what can
we expect if you're just starting out?
>> Probably multiple months if not years. I
believe the average growth rate for a
small brand or business on Instagram is
like 8% per month. Okay,
>> so that's that's really a small amount
of followers, right? Um, and you know,
we hear about these like viral success
stories and that's what sticks in our
brain, but it's it takes many months. I
would say usually I used to say commit
for 90 days and then I extended to
commit for 120 days. Now I say commit
for at least 6 months, but the real
advice is probably commit for at least a
year.
>> And when I say commit like consistency
and all the other things that I'm sure
we're going to talk about today, but a
year's worth of that and then you can go
back to the drawing board and be like,
okay, maybe this just absolutely is not
working. But, you know, to take your
first question even a step further, what
so many people do is they give up after
a month or 90 days. Um, or even, you
know, I've heard examples of people
messaging me, hey, it's been a week.
Hey, it's been 2 weeks. What's going
wrong? And I reply, what's going wrong
is you're expecting results after less
than a month of work. Um, so it's going
to take time. Um, but you got to commit
to it.
>> Yeah, the commitment is important, but
of course there are many ways that we
could approach Instagram. If you're just
starting out from scratch, what are you
doing? What are you posting? M
>> are we doing photos, carousels, I hear a
thing? Uh reals, stories. What's the
gist? What's what is your best strategy
for somebody who's literally just
getting started?
>> Yeah. First, we need to identify what is
our focus going to be or our niche or
however you want to say it. Like what is
that topic we're going to focus on?
Luckily, if you don't know exactly what
that is, you don't have to have that
ironed out before you start posting, but
you usually have to have that ironed out
before you actually start growing. Okay?
So you can start throwing things at the
wall into experiment like what do I like
to do? What kind of content do I prefer
to create? What am I good at creating or
to just practice but if you actually
want to see results and growth it's
going to come from starting with that
niching down that getting focused. Um
but then from there early on I would
focus primarily on reals.
>> I would say probably 80% of your focus
should be on reels. Reels on average
reach more new people like the non-f
followers. Um, and so obviously if if
you don't have any followers cuz you're
just getting started, you need to start
posting reels. But don't neglect the
other formats. Continue to post
carousels, post photos. The format that
I would say you could neglect the most
early on, like early early on, is
stories because stories are almost
exclusively viewed by followers. And if
you don't have very many followers yet,
at most you're going to be getting a
couple of views on your stories. And not
that those people don't matter, but you
know, just thinking about the return on
your time investment, it's probably best
to wait on stories if you have to choose
something to wait on.
>> So, short form video, I think we all
know that this is where the attention is
right now.
>> Um, how often are you recommending we
post?
>> Yeah.
>> So, this goes with the consistency
thing. How often and and how much?
>> This is such a great question. Probably
the number one question I get and my
answer is not a numerical value. My
answer is I think it's an eightword
sentence. The more you post, the more
you grow. Is that eight? Eight total.
>> Okay. Yeah. The more you post, the more
you grow. So there's a direct
correlation between posting frequency,
how much you are posting to your feed,
and growth rate. And that's all the way
to the furthest extreme, which I'm not
telling people to post this much, but
there are examples of accounts that are
posting hundreds of times a day.
>> Hundreds a day.
>> Hundreds. [clears throat] There was
there's one viral example that it went
viral because they showed their account
to Mr. beast and so now his name is you
know attached to it but they're like an
e you know e- newsws like entertainment
news in the states but specifically for
Bollywood
>> and they have a staff of dozens of
people
>> but they are posting hundreds of times a
day about Bollywood news if you look at
their account they have like over a
100,000 total posts uploaded which is
insane again I'm not telling anyone to
do this but they're growing hundreds of
thousands of followers per month they
have like 30 something million followers
on their account um in a relatively
short amount of time so Again, not
saying that anyone should do that, just
giving that as an example. Even myself
personally, um, and there are numerous
other studies to back this up, but I did
a personal experiment this year where
for the first half of 2025, I posted 2.5
times a day,
>> okay?
>> And I grew 20,000 followers in those
first 6 months. During those first 6
months, you could argue that that was
one of the best opportunities for my
growth ever because I got to interview
the head of Instagram during that
six-month period. I got to do a bunch of
collabs with like big accounts. The
official@creators account on Instagram
which has like 20 million followers.
That period should have been optimal
growth stage. The second 6 months of the
year I scaled from 2.5 posts per day to
four posts per day. And I gained 60,000
followers. So three times the amount of
followers in the second half
>> without the collab, without
>> without the collab, without the super
cool interview, without like all these
big things that were blowing up. And so
obviously there's a million other
variables and obviously this is a small
sample size but it's again just the
proof is in the pudding that the more
you post the more you grow.
>> The more you post the more you grow
which at least for us old school
creators who grew up in the blogging
days right it was like you don't post
too much because it would overwhelm your
audience and your subscribers but that
doesn't seem to be the case here. No,
it's it's the Tik Tokification of social
media, right? Where uh Tik Tok the
reason that it blew up in 2020 and has
stuck around unlike, you know, imagine
all those other social networks that
blew up and
>> Vine and um Foursquare and Be Real,
remember all these apps that like blew
up and they're pretty much non-existent
today.
>> Tik Tok stuck around because Tik Tok
said, "Hey, we don't care who you
follow. We don't care who your social
circle is." Which is how Facebook
worked, right?
local
if I post four times today, you're
probably not going to see all four.
You're I'm lucky if you see one, but
that one that you see is based off which
one would be most interesting to you. M
um and so that's kind of like the the
really great thing about this Tik
Tokification is you could post 100
really bad posts and if they're all
really bad because they're not engaging,
they're not captivating people or would
not be interested. Well, the good news
is they won't be shown to people. Like
your worst work won't be shown, only
your best work will be shown. Um and so
that's kind of the the the real strong
suit or the benefit of this Tik
Tokification.
>> So what's the point of trying to get
subscribers or followers? Is is there a
point?
>> There is a point. The point is that they
are slightly more likely to see your
post. Um,
>> people do they are more likely to use
your word to use your shirt to become a
super fan if they are first a follower.
It's just nowadays it's a lot tougher to
get someone to follow in the first
place.
>> The follow is less valuable than it was
10 to 15 years ago. But it is still the
next step in that journey. Very rarely
are people going to go from just viewer
like nonfollower to customer. There's
usually the customer in between in the
funnel.
>> Yep. And this is where we unlock the
power of stories now in Instagram,
right? Because your followers will see
those stories. Exactly. And that's where
clicks, call to actions, and things like
that uh can come into play, which I
found to be a huge benefit of getting
onto Instagram versus something like
YouTube Shorts, which is still great,
and I'm growing hugely there, but
>> getting clicks from viewers there is
much harder than followers on Instagram
who've seen my videos, who now follow
who then see a story where I'm saying,
"Go here."
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. So, if video is in fact what we
should be doing, let's break down a
video. What makes a great video that
will get seen by a lot of people
>> with short form? It's the hook. The hook
is beyond a shadow of a doubt absolutely
everything. 80% of the time, energy, and
effort that you spend planning the post,
scripting the post, coming up with
what's going to be in it should be spent
on just those first few seconds. Um, and
I think within the world of small
business owners and uh marketers and and
brands, they've we've overfocused on the
words of the hook, whether that be the
text that they're writing on the screen
or the words that they're saying. And
we've kind of forgotten about something
that I think you do a great job of,
which is the visual. The visual is so
huge. And the audio, I think you do a
really great job of those two things.
And those are two forgotten elements.
and we just focus on like say this
number of words, use this kind of words,
use negative language, and like those
sorts of things can help. A shorter,
more concise hook is usually going to be
more effective. A hook that is using
simpler language, uh that would be
understandable by a drunk grandma, that
is usually going to be more effective.
>> Should I open it or should I keep it
sealed?
>> Yeah. Like a I could tell my grandma
that phrase and she would understand
what's happening, especially if I'm
showing her like a pack. Um, but the
visual, like we're visual creatures. So,
you know, Instagram, people have said
Instagram used to be a photo platform
and now it's a video platform. I
disagree. I think Instagram has always
been a visual platform
>> and short form video and specifically
the hook in your short form video is
just the most visually captivating thing
that you can create right now. Um, and
so paying attention to what video
elements are in there. Are there props
that you can use? Are there visual cues
that can clue someone in? Is there an
interesting moment that is going to draw
people in? Can you just show a face? Cuz
often times just showing a a human face
with eyes, it's the same idea as like
the thumbnail on YouTube. Yeah.
>> Right. If you have a face in it, people
are more likely to click. And so it's
those same elements apply to your hook
on your reels.
>> So if hooks are the most important
thing, what are some channels or
examples from others that you remember
because of the hooks?
>> Yeah. Uh, one that does a really great
job is wants and needs brand underscore.
I believe that's them. It might be
underscore brand or brand underscore.
They do a good job. And then Citizen the
artist, he's a musician. They both do
something that's called hook swaps where
they take these sort of like viral
clips, viral moments, super
curiositydriven, oftentimes like an
underlying story element that get you to
lean forward and be like, "Oh, what's
about to happen?"
and then you want to keep watching and
then before you know it, Once in Needs
has transitioned into selling their gray
sweatuit or Citizen the Artist has
transitioned into one of his music
videos. Um, so they both do a really
great job, but they do it a little bit
differently. Once Needs use uses
pre-existing hooks and swaps into their
own. Um, so they use like already proven
somebody else's viral clip, viral intro,
and then it transitions into their
stitch or duet. Instagram changes the
name all the time on us. Um, and then
Citizen the Artist does more higher
production value. It takes a little bit
more time and creativity, but he creates
his own. Okay.
>> Um, and so just kind of different takes
on the same essential strategy. They do
a great job. Um,
>> how is that not a bait and switch? Like
that sounds like a bait and switch.
Here's this thing that's not what my
thing is about, but I I did it to capt
capture your attention.
>> Part of it is playing on the just the
overconumption of trends on social
media. Um, there are there are
differences though because I think like
the bait and switch or or clickbait on
YouTube is like making a promise that
you are going to get this thing from
this video. OMG, my grandma died and
then the video is like my grandma died
laughing, right? Like that is that is
clickbait. Um, that's what we see on
YouTube. on Instagram. It's more like
taking something that is dramatic and it
is going to happen in the video. Like
Citizen, the artist did one where he uh
tripped and he literally tripped and it
fell and it looked like he was in like
Southern California and it looked like
he was going to trip and fall into a
tide pool at the beach and he literally
in the video does trip and fall, but
then it just seamlessly transitions from
his trip and fall into his music video.
So, you're still getting to see the the
dramatic interesting moment of him
tripping or in one case getting his
shoelace caught in like the door of a
car, something like that. Um, but also I
think people because it's short form,
they're a lot more forgiving. Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Whereas on YouTube, it's like you just
wasted 20 minutes of my time for your
grandma to die laughing. Versus on
Instagram, it's like you wasted 3
seconds of my time, but you were also
really captivating and funny and I got
dopamine. So like my box is checked for
this video and
>> you know now it's it like thank you for
interrupting my thumb scrolling for this
thing. Right. So, um, the one that I
remember seeing on a lot like this was a
trend that I saw on a lot of people's
Instagrams and Tik Toks was there was
like a person sitting in a chair tied
up. You don't know why they're tied up.
There's a rope connected to it and a car
driving away. You can see the the rope
getting, you know, closer and closer to
being taught and then
>> sometimes it actually does pull the
person.
>> The Paul brothers did that trend. I did
that trend. I feel like
>> Oh, you did that?
>> I did that one. I did it with uh it was
tied around my neck and I was standing
there. Um, yeah, it was it definitely
took a few takes and like my heart was
pounding because even though the the
rope wasn't tied tied, I was like, what
if it gets snagged? Like what if I do
get yanked right now [laughter] and my
wife's driving the car? It was scary.
But again, I also think that uh
committing to your videos is something
that isn't talked about enough. Um, I
think that I think a lot of people are
um kind of mailing it in. They're doing
the bare minimum. And I am all for
lowhanging fruit, easy content, but if
all you're doing is easy content, then
people aren't going to engage because it
looks no different from everyone else.
There's nothing unique or creative. And
so I think committing like not
necessarily putting yourself in a
dangerous situation like tying a rope
around your neck and tying the other end
to a car. Um, but committing to the bit
and and for some people that can be as
small of a change as just going outside.
Going outside and filming your reels at
a park or just in your front yard has
been shown to increase engagement and
views because there's an underlying
instinctual. Oh, hey, uh there's a
little bit more variability here. Hey,
there's a little bit more dynamicness
going on. That's why like street
interviews are such a popular style of
of short form content
>> because who knows what's going to
happen, right? We're we're filming on
the streets. So, I think
uh who lives in Hawaii who goes around
and he finds people's pets. Mhm.
>> He's like the videos start with, "Hey,
is your pet friendly?"
>> Uh, and then he takes pictures of the
pet. So then the end of the video is
always the like reveal, the climax is
there's these beautiful photos that he
takes, but it's the interaction like you
know what's going to happen. He's going
to find a pet
>> and then he's going to take photos of
it. But how's that owner going to take
it? What's the dog going to is the dog
going to behave? Like we don't know. And
it's he's gotten to like a million
followers just being a street
photographer in doing that. He even said
for himself as an introvert uh that this
was a great exercise. He like the reason
why he wanted to do this is because he
was afraid to talk to people and this
was his way to kind of document not just
these amazing photos of people and their
pets but his own journey of becoming now
somebody who's comfortable talking to
people as a stranger. So that like to me
that was like oh now I'm getting to know
this person behind this trend or this
this this thing. Um, and funny enough,
when I was in Hawaii for uh a Pokémon
event, I was wearing like this bright
Pokemon shirt and I and and he was a fan
of my channel.
>> Oh, nice.
>> So, I got to meet him and he interviewed
me and I was like, I don't have a pet,
but [laughter]
>> you can interview me if you want. I
guess Pokémon are kind of like pets
>> similar.
>> Um, but this repeatable format thing was
really, really cool. And of course, you
know, my show, Should I open it or try
to keep it sealed? Very repeatable
format. It makes it easy for me to
create.
>> Makes it easy for people to know what
it's about. What are your thoughts on
trying to find some repeatable format
versus h what am I going to do today?
>> One of my big predictions for 2026 is
that repeatable formats specifically in
the form of series or even challenges
are going to go rampant. I I hope uh
that it's going to last the entire year
and that like someone who uh is starting
their own series at the end of 2026 can
still like have this virality and uh pop
off with it. But I definitely believe
that at the beginning half of the year,
there are going to be a lot of people
creating these series or challenges and
they're going to have wild success
because of it. Um, I mean, we could
think of a million examples. There's a
guy named Gage who is running a mile for
every follower that he gains and he's
now got a million followers and he was
also, I think, over 400 lb at the start.
And so, he's now got over a million on
Instagram, Tik Tok, and YouTube. Uh he's
in the deep pocket monster class and he
he
>> he's going to run a million miles,
>> three million now. But he's he's and
he's kind of come forward and said like
I'm realistically probably never going
to be able to run this many. Like elite
marathoners aren't running a million
miles in their life,
>> but he is running multiple miles every
day. He's documenting his journey. He's
lost almost 200 lb, I believe, already
which is insane. Um and he's documenting
it every step of the way. And he's kind
of now added challenges onto it. He's
like, "Well, maybe if I can't run 700
miles today, maybe I can, you know, run
a mile barefoot or I'm going to run a
mile." And he's like doing these other
little challenges, raising funds for
certain things. Um, so that's one
example. There's one guy
>> he's doing, he's calling it the
isolation year, and he's literally
locking himself in what's essentially a
prison cell, like a room in his house
that they've built to look like a prison
cell for an entire year. And they're
going to document the entire thing. And
again, I'm not telling people to do this
level of extreme, but if like I I've
been talking to my community about these
challenges, and I'll hear people say
like, "Well, I'm going to do a 30-day
challenge where I'm making a different
salad every day." I'm like, I love that
you have a series that you come up with,
but when you are competing against a guy
who's running a mile for every follower
or locking himself in a room, it's not
going to hit the same, right? It's not
going to drive that same impact. So I
don't think you need to go to an extreme
level, anything that's like again
harmful or dangerous, but like what can
you come up with?
>> How would you a dayby-day challenge?
Yeah. So I would do uh for a salad.
Yeah. I would say adding one new
ingredient to my salad every day until I
reach 10K followers.
>> So maybe if you get to day 320, you have
a salad with 320 ingredients. And it's
hilarious. And it's and it's funny,
right? Yeah. Um I I was talking with one
of our other clients who she created
like a invented a at home workout device
thing. Um and I was talking to her about
it and she said, you know, it's great
because it allows people to work out
from home, work out from anywhere. It's
easy to transport. And she said, what if
I did uh a workout on it every day? I
said, well, you're already doing a
workout on it every day. So what if
instead we did day blank, day one of
exercising in a new location with my
insert invention. And so now one day
she's going to be in a Target parking
lot. One day she's going to be on the
top of a mountain. There's this great
guy who uh his Instagram is called
Discovery Deadlift
>> and he tredges into like high mountain
peaks or middle of the back country or
desolate beaches with a couple hundred
lbs of like a barbell and some weights
and then he does deadlifts. And so it's
just kind of taking that same idea of
like what if I didn't exercise in a
crazy um location. But she then is
showing right that her product can be
taken anywhere. It's easy to transport.
She can show different exercises that
you can do with it. So, she's
essentially selling her product in every
video, but it's a creative challenge in
the process.
>> I like that. A lot of these examples are
big, grand examples, right? And I think
there are many examples of other
creators who are doing much smaller
things that might be easier to grasp,
but are still just as interesting. I
I've been following a couple people who
have been
>> challenging themselves to speak in
public without filler words.
>> It's like day one of trying to speak for
60 seconds without using filler words,
and they're on day like 200 now. And you
could tell they've completely
transformed their communication. And
although there's no crazy spectacle,
there is a real relatable part of that
that I think is very,
>> you know, uh, very nice for people to
>> and I think it's challenging, right?
Like it is something that is a
legitimate challenge. It's not something
that you would do anyways. It's not
something that is uh also it's not
something that they're not necessarily
inviting the community to get involved
with. The community can get involved,
but I think that's a a misinterpretation
when we talk about this sometimes.
people be like, "Well, what could
everyone do with me?" And it's like, I
would rather you challenge yourself
first, and if people want to do it,
that's great, but that's not the focus.
>> Um, I have one of these challenges for
myself that I'm going to do in 2026
where I'm going to write down the name
of every follower that I gain from now
until I hit a million followers, which
I'm like 150,000 away, which I did the
math. If it takes me 10 seconds to write
down a name and I gain just 250
followers, that's going to take me like
40 minutes to write down the name. So,
it's going to be
>> How far are you in that?
>> I haven't started it yet. So, I'm going
to be starting it uh at like right
before the new year. Um so, like I
really hope I hit I hope I hit it
quickly, but also I know and I'm going
to get like a giant sheet of paper and
so when I get done it's going to be all
of the names written down and you know
with obviously losing followers, it's
probably going to be 200 to 250,000
names I'm going to have to write down.
Um but like if there's a day where I
gain 10,000 followers, that might take
me legitimately hours to write down
every single name. Um, but I think the
underlying message with that one will
also be like every person matters. It's
not just a number. It's not just a data.
It's not just something to pat yourself
on the back about. It's like
>> this is a real human being. Yeah. Right.
So
>> that's cool. Uh, speaking of data, once
you start to get some bank of videos on
your Instagram, what data are you
looking at
>> to inform how to do better in your next
videos? Yeah, retention is is a huge one
which Instagram has given us a lot of
new stats in terms of like how long are
people watching the video, how what's
the watch rate after the first 3
seconds. I think those are key. Um and
then depending on what your goal is, I
might focus on different metrics. So if
your goal was growth, I'm going to focus
primarily on shares as a form of
engagement and creating content or
doubling down on the content that is
getting more shares. Um if I want more
sales, I'm in a season of selling. I'm
focusing more on comments. Okay. Or
things that drive story views rather
than shares or virality.
>> So, when it comes to shares, what makes
a video sharable?
>> Mhm. I have an acronym that's five. It's
the word share. Okay. S is simple. We've
talked a little bit about like dumb it
down. Make it simple. Use easy to
understand words. H is hook. We've
talked about hooks. A is authentic,
>> which that's obviously a buzz word. How
do you be more authentic? I think that
you reduce the time between idea and
execution. The shorter amount of time
you can get with short form video
between I have an idea, I want to make a
post, I want to talk about this topic, I
want to tell this story and actually
doing it, the more authentic it'll be,
>> the most authentic being like in the
actual
>> in the moment like I just had this idea
and like I'm in my car like how many
viral car videos have you seen where a
guy is just sitting in his car talking
to the camera, right? That's authentic.
That's real. Not spending hours editing
it, filtering it, refining it. That
stuff is great for long form. That stuff
is great for a really beautifully told
story. But on Instagram, like just give
me the real. So that's authentic. Um R
is relatable. And my tip for
relatability is that relatability comes
from specificity. And what I mean by
that is when you are telling your
stories or when you are, let's say,
labeling a meme, get specific in your
wording. Um I'll give you uh an example.
Bad example would be if I were to post
uh a trending audio of myself getting
mad and I labeled it me when my reel
doesn't get a lot of views. It's
relatable, right? anyone in my audience
can relate to not getting a lot of
views. But if instead I get specific and
I say me when I spend three hours
editing a reel and it gets seven likes,
>> there's probably very few people in my
audience who have it had exactly that
experience. But because I have gotten
specific, they can now relate with it
more deeply and more strongly. So get
specific there.
>> Um instead of being vague, we have a
tendency to like water ourselves down
thinking, well, I'll appeal to anyone,
but the more specific you get, the more
you can appeal specifically to people in
your audience. Um,
>> then E is entertainment. Uh, the
interview that gets all the attention
that I did this year was the head of
Instagram. The interview that should get
all the attention is my interview in a
backroom closet with the head of
Instagram for business because he shared
a lot more juicy stuff, stuff that was
not necessarily approved by Meta to
share. Oh, really?
>> Um, but yeah. Uh, we could go into a
whole side conversation about that. Um,
>> did you have to keep take it down?
>> Uh, not take it down. He was nice enough
to say I didn't have to take it down,
but he did ask me to they asked me to no
longer promote it or post about it. So,
I I'll mention it like like here.
>> It may or may not be
>> may or may not be on my podcast or
[laughter] something.
>> Um, but
>> that's interesting.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it was
>> Why wouldn't they want you to
>> There was just some things that he
shared and tips and things that like
were not meta approved and they're very
much like a go through legal type of
type of company, you know. Um,
>> are these mind-blowing things that like
>> I don't know if they I would say
mind-blowing, but definitely definitely
juicier than my interview with the head
of Instagram.
>> If you don't mind, could you share one
juicy thing from that?
>> Yeah, I what what it is and what
actually relates to this share acronym
is the E, which was he said that way too
many brands and business owners are
focused on educational content, giving
tips and value and education, uh, when
instead they should be focused on
entertainment. He said a few years ago,
and I'm paraphrasing, but he said, "A
few years ago, brands and businesses
should consider how entertaining is my
content." He said, "Now, it needs to be
the focus. It needs to be the primary
driving factor when you're creating
content, when you're writing a script.
How entertaining is this post? Is this
sentence? How necessary is the framing
and the visual?" And focusing on
entertainment. And we can, you know, get
into how to achieve entertainment value
because it's not dancing and being
crazy, silly, goofy clown is the
definition of entertainment in that.
>> Yeah. Uh, I think part of it is
something that you talk about all the
time, which is storytelling is a huge
part of entertainment. Part of it is the
visuals that we've talked about so far.
Um, I think considering the stranger is
huge, which I think so many people when
they're creating content, they're
creating it from their own point of
view, but most people who are seeing
your posts are either literal strangers.
They've never seen a post before, or
they are followers, but they don't see
posts that often. Most people are not
like me watching Short Pocket Monster
where I'm like watching every single
episode every single night and I'm
refreshing at 9:00 p.m. like where's
today's episode? Most people are just,
oh, hey, this is the first post I've
seen in a month.
>> Yeah.
>> And so with it being in mind for a
stranger, does the first few seconds
find that balance between grabbing their
attention, but still making them curious
to know more. Curious to know more, but
not so curious that they're confused and
lost. Yeah.
>> And just uh formatting it for a stranger
is helpful. And then to take it a step
further and make it even more practical
with each sentence that you say, each
word that you include in the video, just
asking, is this necessary or is it
redundant?
>> I hope you get fit, be lean, lose
weight, and be healthy. You just said
the same thing four different ways.
Like, can we say it one way? Because the
more redundant you are, I'm going to get
bored and I'm going to scroll away.
>> Yeah. Dang, that's really good. Thank
you. We'll link to that
>> exclusive secret thing uh in in in the
>> We'll link to it somewhere.
>> Yeah. Um, as we wrap up here, you know,
there's a lot of business owners and
entrepreneurs who are here who don't
just want to build a following and
become quoteunquote Instagram famous,
but they want to do business. They want
to, you know, generate revenue. And so,
I'm curious your thoughts on
>> what is the best way for a person who
now has a following, how might they then
convert those followers into dollars?
>> Yeah, I'm glad we're talking about this
because this is the most important
thing. This is what I care about the
most. I don't care if you go viral. I
care if you are putting food on the
table, uh, paying your bills. Um, and on
Instagram, the biggest difference maker
is direct message automation. Um, which
is essentially the tried and true way of
promoting things on Instagram for the
last 20 years has been click the link in
my bio. And what happens when you say
that is half your audience or however
much they're not interested, which
there's always going to be people who
are not interested and they're just
going to scroll. Who cares? We, you
know, do a better job of marketing to
make them interested or whatever. But
then the half that is interested, they
are now being told directly by you,
don't engage with this post, go
somewhere else, do something else. And
that something else is usually also like
a multi-step process of like go to my
bio, find the link. It's a link menu.
Select the right thing from the menu.
It's confusing.
>> If instead you use direct message
automation, which is that thing that I
think a lot more people are familiar
with now, where a creator will say,
comment the word blank and I will send
you blank.
>> Yeah. Now, instead of telling people,
"Hey, leave this post alone," you're
telling them, "Engage with the post."
Now, your post is getting hundreds of
comments, those comments are getting
instantly sent the thing that they want,
the guide, the course, whatever that
you're selling, right, to their inbox.
So, it shows up with that little red one
and now they have like a reminder to go
click on it.
>> Um, you're getting more engagement,
which leads to more views, which then
creates like a positive feedback loop,
more engagement, more views, so on and
so forth. Um, and the fortune is in the
follow-up. So when someone clicks the
link in your bio, you don't know who
they are. You don't know who clicked,
when they clicked. You don't know if
they become a customer. All you know is
tomorrow you can look back and Instagram
will be like 137 people clicked on your
link yesterday. Okay, I can't really do
anything with that.
>> But if I use direct message automation,
I can see 37% of people clicked on this
link. Uh 98% of people opened this
message. Okay, so maybe there's a way I
could get more people who opened to
actually click. They were obviously
interested.
>> Yeah. Oh, hey. I can I can literally see
the names of every person who clicked
and I can see that of the 10 people who
clicked, only three purchased. So, I can
go manually follow up with the other
seven. Or I could even build automations
to follow up. Say, "Hey, I noticed that
you were interested in that thing, but
um didn't see your purchase comes come
through. I want you to know that the
sale ends tomorrow night. Are there any
questions I can answer?" You can then
follow up with them. It's an absolute
gamecher. It's proven to increase the
vanity metrics of views and engagement,
but it's also proven to drastically
increase sales, click-through rates, and
all that.
>> What tool are you using for that?
>> I use ManyHat. It's the most popular
tool. There are are some other tools
that do it as well. Manyhat is the most
popular, most trusted, and I believe
it's the only tool that is an officially
approved partner. It's not just like
they have access to Instagram's API.
They're literally they meet every week
with Meta uh to make sure that they're
in good standing.
>> Um, plus one on using ManyHat. We use
Mini Chat now have started using it.
It's It's been pretty amazing.
>> Yeah. And they have some amazing
features that are like that are coming
out in 2026 or that came out at the end
of 2025. One of my new favorites is the
automatic DM when someone follows you.
Um and so business owners are tempted to
like, hey, I got a new follower. Let's
send them a message. That's a sale. I
don't recommend doing that, but what I
turned on is I just say, "Hey, thanks so
much for the follow. I appreciate you."
>> That's it. No sale. And so now hundreds
of times a day people are getting that
message from me. And I open my DMs and
it's blowing up with people being like,
"Hey, thanks. Hey, I appreciate that."
Or like liking the message. Um, and it's
just like immediately creating that
feeling of like, "Hey, you're welcome
here. I appreciate you being here." And
it's just creating that uh engagement.
>> And then to finalize this conversation,
how do you get people from engaging with
you in that sort of
>> uh non- salesy way
>> to then purchasing something from you?
Do you have a a plan or a campaign or
like how are you doing that
>> specifically using many chat in in that
new feature? No, not necessarily. I just
want to create this positive feeling and
it is shown on Instagram that when
someone DMs you or you DM them, you that
you are more likely to see their next
post. Um, and so by them saying like,
"Hey, thanks." They're now even more
likely to see my next post. And if in
the future I want them to message me a
certain keyword, there's already a DM
conversation there. So, it's not going
to be lost in the requests folder or
they're not going to be confused. It's
there. Um, they've already opened a
message from me in the past. Um, and so
it just makes it that much easier in the
future when I say comment this word or
DM me this special keyword that they
know how to do that and they'll get the
response they're looking for.
>> And then do you run sales in an
evergreen fashion or do you have like
moments of the year where you're running
a campaign?
>> We definitely have sales uh you know
like the typical Black Friday sales and
that sort of thing and we have usually
like one or two annual launches. Besides
that, I am constantly driving people to
free lead magnets. Um, I think that
Instagram is a great top and middle of
funnel and then to get people into like
a low ticket product or a free product.
I think that's what's great on
Instagram. I think the more expensive
you go, the tougher and tougher it is
going to be to actually close that sale
on Instagram.
>> Um, I find it much more beneficial to
like up on a consultation call or or
something like that if you're going to
sell a high ticket mastermind.
>> Yeah. They want that conversation like
are you an actual person? Exactly.
>> Great. Uh, what would be your final tip
to leave people who are now either going
to start Instagram or they're there and
they're going to take some of these
tips?
>> Uh, what can the masters say to help
these people who are listening today?
>> Yeah, I appreciate that. I think it's
not the sexy answer, uh, but it's the
honest answer and it's just press post.
Like those are the three words that I
live by. Um, I wish I had been born 50
years earlier so I could have stolen
that from Nike before they said just do
it. Um, but just press post. Um, you
know, I heard this great analogy
yesterday that you will love, which is
you can't control how many fish you
catch. You can only control how often
you fish, right? Count, you say it all
the time. You you uh quote Alex and
saying count uploads, not views. Count
uploads, not followers. And um I think
that going all the way back to what we
were talking about at the beginning,
don't focus on those outcomes, the the
views, the the followers, the things you
ultimately can't control. Just focus on
what you you can control. How can I
improve my process? How can I become
more efficient? how can I implement
systems so that this isn't taking hours,
it's taking a couple minutes a day. Um,
but ultimately just press post because
like I could have shared a million tips
in this interview and maybe zero of them
are going to work for one of these
viewers but in experimenting with these
ideas and in just pressing post they're
going to find what does work for them.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So ultimately just press post
>> and as you said before the more you post
the more you grow.
>> Print it.
>> Thanks man. I appreciate you.